
1. convert segy data to z-format data file.

Normally each shot or receiver gather is in its own
segy file. Multiple shot or receiver gathers can be put
together into one z-format file, for example, for all the data
along one profile.

Run the program sgy2z like:

sgy2z < sgy2z.rsp

The file sgy2z.rsp should contain the names of the segy files
to be converted into one z-format file.

The file sgy2z.in contains the input parameters to run the 
program sgy2z. There is documentation for sgy2z (sgy2z.doc).

Two data files will be created after running sgy2z. First, the 
converted data file in z-format (dfile), and the header
file (hfile) which just contains the headers for each trace.

2. create record file

In addition you need to create a "record" file. You have one
called test.rec. It conists of 1 line for each record (gather),
with 6 columns. The columns are: record number, x position (along a 2D
model/profile), x, y coordinate of shot or receiver for common
shot or receiver gather (mainly for 3D data), azimuth, and 
a plot title.

3. Run zplot

Then you are set to run zplot. Input parameters are in the zplot.in
file. Make sure the parameters dfile, hfile and rfile are set
to the correct data file, header file, and record file.

To run zplot interactively, use iplot=1. To make a hard copy postscript
plot (outfile file will be p.out), use iplot=0.

Not that the documentation for zplot (zplot.doc) is not 100% accurate
or up-to-date. In particular, the following options are additional
features that can be applied by entries from the keyboard:

1,2,3,4,5 - change ixaxis to this value and replot
u,v - move up and down the plot by an amount equal to tlinc
- change sign of ixaxis to the value -ixaxis and replot
<,> - replot using an xmin (<) or xmax (>) value for the plot such that
      all traces to the left or right for this record will be plotted
0,6,7,8,9 - change reducing velocity to this value and replot
c - plot in the "clip mode" using the values clipamp and clipval
    (to return to the normal plot mode, enter "c" again)

4. run headup

After exiting zplot by enter "q" or clicking on "quit", you must run
headup to update the header file with the new picks and edits you
have made. If you do not want to update (save) the picks you just made
then don't run headup. To run headup, use

headup < headup.rsp

The response file headup.rsp will look like:

test.hdr
10

Here test.dat is the header file, and 10 is the number of pick
words (determined by the file of npick when you ran sgy2z
to convert the data to z-format).

5. run pickunc

To estimate the pick uncertainties by using the signal-to-ratio
at each pick, run the program pickunc. For this you need an 
input parameter file called pickunc.in. The parameters in
this input file should be obvious by looking at the file we used.

6. run z2tx

Once you have the header file updated, you may want to obtain a
pick file (tx.in) that can be used as input for rayinvr. In this
case run z2tx. The input parameter file is z2tx.in. The documentation
for the input parameters is:

Here is a z2tx.in input file example.
 
  &par
    hfile='new.hdr'
    picku=0.05,9*0.10,
    npick=10,
    xmod= 44.952, 48.750, 53.999, 60.882, 69.929,
    azimuth=5*90.,
    nshot=5,
  &end
 
hfile - binary header file name
picku - pick uncertainties in seconds for each pick word
npick - number of pick words (must be same as your binary header file)
xmod - model position of each shot (km) corresponding in order to
       shot records in your zplot data file
azimuth - for 2D data likely use 90, or 0.
nshot - total number of shot gathers in data file
 
Note:
-----
Instead of using picku, you could use ufile='pickunc.hdr' if you have
run the program pickunc to determine the uncertainties by analyzing the
signal-to-ratio at each pick.





